{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Here is the full text from the uploaded paper, formatted for readability:\
LOSSLESS IMAGE COMPRESSION \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
B. C. Vemuri, S. Sahni, F. Chen, C. Kapoor, C. Leonard, and J. Fitzsimmons \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Abstract \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
There are numerous applications of image processing, such as satellite imaging, medical imaging, and video where the image size or image stream size is too large and requires a large amount of storage space or high bandwidth for communication in its original form. Image compression techniques can be used effectively in such applications. Lossless (reversible) image compression techniques preserve the information so that exact reconstruction of the image is possible from the compressed data. In this paper we survey existing coding and lossless compression schemes and also provide an experimental evaluation of various state of the art lossless compression algorithms that have been reported in the literature. The experimental evaluation is done using a large number (45) of publicly available image data sets. In the case of coding algorithms, we present a comparison of the achieved compression for a variety of linearlization schemes applied to the image data sets. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Keywords:
\f0\b0  Lossless Compression, Coding, Linearization, Transform domain, Spatial domain. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
I. INTRODUCTION \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Image comression plays a very important role in applications like tele-videoconferencing, remote sensing, document and medical imaging, and facsimile transmission, which depend on the efficient manipulation, storage, and transmission of binary, gray scale, or color images. Image compression techniques can be classified into two categories: lossless and lossy schemes. In lossless methods, the exact original data can be recovered, while in lossy schemes, only a close approximation of the original data can be obtained. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Image compression can be achieved via coding methods, spatial domain compression, transform domain compression methods or a combination of these methods. Coding methods are directly applied to the raw images treating them as a sequence of discrete numbers. Common coding methods include: Arithmetic, Huffman, Lempel-Ziv Welch (LZW), and Run-Length. Spatial domain methods, which are a combination of spatial domain algorithms and coding methods, not only operate directly on the gray values in an image but also try to eliminate the spatial redundancy. In transform domain compression, the image is represented using an appropriate basis set, and the goal is to obtain a sparse coefficient matrix. Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) based compression and wavelet transform are two examples of transform domain methods. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The authors are with the Dept. of CISE, Univ. of Florida, Gainesville, Fl. 32611. This work was supported in part by the NIH under the grant R01LM05944-03. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Recently, there has been a growing interest in reversible/lossless image compression of medical images. The sheer amount of data involved in the fields of picture archival and communication systems (PACS) coupled with the fact that no loss of fidelity can be tolerated in compression and decompression in most medical applications, has motivated this interest. There are numerous reversible image compression schemes in the literature, each has its own advantages and disadvantages. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
This paper is organized as follows. In Section II we present performance measures for lossless compression. Section III describes different linearization schemes. These schemes can be used to convert a two-dimensional image into a one-dimensional grayscale stream. This conversion is necessary if we are to use standard coding schemes to compress images. Huffman coding, Lempel-Ziv coding, and arithmetic coding are discussed in Section IV. Various spatial domain compression methods including Variable Block Size Compression, JPEG's lossless compression and two context-based lossless compressions are presented in Section V. In Section VI we describe a transform domain compression scheme called the $(S+P)$ transform which is based on the wavelet transform concept. Although experimental results are presented throughout the paper, Section VII summarizes the experiments with a comparison of the best compression methods from each category. This is followed by conclusions in Section VIII. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 II. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT OF LOSSLESS IMAGE COMPRESSION \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The performance of a lossless image compression algorithm can be specified in terms of compression efficiency and complexity. Compression efficiency is measured by the compression ratio or by the bit rate. Compression ratio is the ratio of the size of the original image to the size of the compressed image; and bit rate is the number of bits per pixel required by the compressed image. For example, a $256\\times256$ 8-bits per pixel image requires $256*256*8$ bits 655368 bits 65,536 bytes when stored in uncompressed form. If the compressed image requires 32768 bytes, then the compression ratio is $65536/32768=2.0.$ Since the image has $256*256=65.536$ pixels, the compressed file needs $32768*8/65536=4$ bits per pixel, on average. Hence the bit rate is 4. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The compression ratio and bit rate are related. Let b be the number of bits per pixel of the uncompressed image, CR the compression ratio, and BR the bit rate. The following equality is readily obtained $CR=b/BR$\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The effectiveness of a compression method can be compared to the entropy of the source image. The source entropy is defined as the amount of information contained in a source. Suppose that the pixel gray values range from 0 to $M-1$. Let $p_\{i\}$ be the probability (i.e., frequency divided by the total number of pixels) of the gray value i. The information content of the image is given by its entropy [3]: $H(I)=-\\sum_\{i=0\}^\{M-1\}p_\{i\}log~p_\{i\}$\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The units for entropy are bits per pixel. The effectiveness of a lossless compression method is measured by determining how closely its bit rate approximates the source entropy, as the source entropy is a lower bound on the bit rate any lossless compression method can achieve [3]. Therefore, if the source entropy of an image is 4 bits/pixel and our lossless compressor has a bit rate of 4 bits per pixel, our lossless compressor has done the best job possible. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The complexity of an image compression algorithm is measured by the number of arithmetic operations required to perform both the encoding and decoding processes. This is an important factor for applications involving online image compression and decompression where speed is crucial. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 III. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 LINEARLIZATION SCHEMES \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 When coding schemes such as Huffman coding, arithmtic coding and LZW coding are used to compress a two-dimensional image, the image must first be converted into a one-dimensional sequence. This conversion is referred to as linearization. Coding schemes such as Huffman coding depend only on the frequency of occurrence of different gray values. Since linearization does not affect this frequency, coding schemes in this category are unaffected by the particular method used to linearize a two-dimensional image. On the other hand, coding schemes such as arithmetic coding and Liv-Zempel coding depend on the relative order of gray scale values and so are sensitive to the linearization method used. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Most (real) images have local and global redundancy. Local redundancy causes a given neighborhood in the image to exhibit coherence or correlation (referred to as smoothness of data). Some linearization schemes are more effective than others at (most closely) preserving the neighborhood relationship contained in the image. Therefore, these schemes are more effective in preserving the local redundancy of the image and are expected to yield better compression when coupled with a coding scheme that can take advantage of local redundancy. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Some of the more popular linearization schemes are given below. Each scans the image pixels in some order to produce the one-dimensional sequence. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Row-Major Scan:
\f0\b0  The image is scanned row by row from top to bottom, and from left to right within each row. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Column-Major Scan:
\f0\b0  The image is scanned column by column from left to right, and from top to bottom within each column. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Diagonal Scan:
\f0\b0  The image is scanned along the antidiagonals (i.e., lines with constant row plus column value) beginning with the top-most antidiagonal. Each antidiagonal is scanned from the left bottom corner to the right top corner. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Snake-like Row-Major Scan:
\f0\b0  This is a variant of the row-major scan method described above. In this method, the image is scanned row by row from top to bottom, and the rows are alternately scanned from left to right and from right to left. The top-most row is scanned from left to right. Snake-like variants of column-major and diagonal scans can be defined in a similar manner. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Spiral Scan:
\f0\b0  In this scan, the image is scanned from the outside to the inside, tracing out a spiral curve starting from the top left corner of the image and proceeding clockwise. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b Peano-Hilbert Scan:
\f0\b0  This scan method is due to Peano and Hilbert, and is best described recursively. This method requires the image to be a $2^\{k\}\\times2^\{k\}$ image. When k is odd, the scan path starts at the leftmost pixel of the first row and ends at the leftmost pixel of the bottom row. When k is even, the path starts at the leftmost pixel of the first row and ends at the right-most pixel of this row. In a Peano-Hilbert scan, the image is scanned quadrant by quadrant. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Table I gives the compression ratios achieved by gzip on a sample suite of 10 images. Different linearization schemes result in different compression ratios when gzip is used for compression. For example, the compression ratios for the man image range from 1.3 to 1.4, and those for brain1 range from 1.63 to 1.75. Although no single linearization method provides the highest compression for all images, the Peano-Hilbert scan did the best most often. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Table II gives the compression ratios achieved by the Unix compression utility compress on our sample suite of 10 images. Compress did not provide better compression than provided by gzip on any of our test images. Consequently, we shall not report further results using compress. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 IV. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 CODING METHODS \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Coding schemes that are designed for sequential data compression can be used to compress two-dimensional images provided they are linearized. In this section, we first discribe coding schemes for sequential data and then compare their performance in the context of compressing two-dimensional images. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
A. Huffman Coding \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In Huffman coding each symbol of the uncompressed data is replaced by a code [12]. The symbol codes are of variable length and symbols that occur more frequently in the uncompressed data have codes of smaller length than symbols that occur less frequently. The symbol codes satisfy a prefix property-no code is a proper prefix of another code. By encoding frequently occurring symbols by short codes and infrequently occurring symbols by longer codes, an overall reduction in the space needed by the data is obtained. For the case of images, individual pixel values are considered to represent individual symbols and the symbol set consists of all gray values. For an 8 bits per pixel image, the size of the symbol set is $2^\{8\}=256$. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Assume that the data to be compressed has five symbols: \{s1, s2, s3, s4, s5\} with the following probabilities: \{0.1, 0.3, 0.25, 0.15, 0.2). The Huffman codes for n symbols can be computed in $O(n~log~n)$ time using a greedy algorithm. Using the greedy code construction algorithm, we obtain the following symbol codes: \{100, 11, 01, 101, 00\}. Notice that no code is a prefix of another code and that the symbol s2 with higher probability has the 2-bit code 11 while the symbol sl with lower probability has the 3-bit code 100. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In Huffman coding, we use a fixed preset coding table which is based on an estimated frequency distribution of the values to be coded. In adaptive Huffman coding the coding table, is generated individually (adaptively) from the symbol probabilities (or frequencies) for the data to be coded. Although adaptive coding results in higher compression ratios, all the data to be compressed must be available before compression can start because the symbol frequencies have to be determined before we can determine the symbol codes. To decompress the data, we need the code table. Using this, the original uncompressed data can be reconstructed by examining the compressed data from begin to end. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The results are inferior to those obtained using gzip on all 10 images. This is not surprising as gzip is essentially LZW coding followed by Huffman coding. For the head image, Huffman coding is almost as good as gzip; suggesting that on this image gzip gets most of its compression from its postprocessing Huffman coding step. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
B. LZW Coding \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Lempel and Ziv [13] and Welch [15] have proposed an adaptive coding method that does not require all the data that is to be compressed to be available at the start. Rather, their technique generates codes as it examines the source file from begin to end. In Huffman coding a variable length code is constructed for each symbol in the source file. In Lempel-Ziv coding fixed-length codes are constructed, on the fly, for variable-length sequences of symbols. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Assume that the symbols which occur in the source file are a, b, c, and that the string ababcabc is to be compressed. First, we initialize a code-to-string dictionary to contain the single-symbol strings that are possible. For our example, these strings are a, b, and c. The string code is given by its position in the dictionary. So the code for a is 0, that for b is 1, and that for e is 2. Then starting from the first symbol in the file to be compressed, we find the longest prefix of the input which is in the dictionary. The longest prefix of our source file ababcabc that is in the dictionary is a. Its code 0 is output as part of the compressed file and the prefix plus the next input symbol entered into the dictionary. In our case, the string ab is entered into the dictionary. Its code is 3. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
We do not report any experimental results for the LZW method as gzip is a combination of LZW and Huffman coding, and results for gzip were presented in Section III. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
C. Arithmetic Coding \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In this method, a message is coded as a subinterval of the interval [0, 1), where [x, y) denotes a half open interval, which includes but excludes y [2]. There are two fundamental concepts in arithmetic coding: the probability of a symbol, and encoding interval range for a symbol. The occurrence probabilities of source symbols determine the compression efficiency as well as the interval ranges of source symbols for the encoding process. These interval ranges are contained within the interval from zero to one and determine the compression output. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Let's assume that the source symbols are \{a, b\} and the probabilities of these symbols are 0.4 and 0.6, respectively. Then, based on these probabilities, the interval (0, 1) can be divided into the two sub-intervals: [0, 0.4) and [0.4, 1). The range [0, 0.4) is used to further subdivide an interval when the symbol a is encountered in the input file and the range [0.4,1) is used when the symbol b is encountered. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Although our preceding description of arithmetic coding uses high-precision floating point arithmetic, the scheme can be adapted to use integers alone [2]. Furthermore the coding scheme can be made adaptive, that is the probablilities and hence subranges of [0, 1) associated with each symbol can be made to depend on the symbol frequencies in the source file that is being coded. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
As was the case for gzip, the performance of arithmetic coding is sensitive to the linearization scheme used. Once again, no linearization scheme provided maximum compression on all images, though the Peano-Hilbert scan came close to doing this. Gzip provided more compression than did arithmetic coding on the first six images. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
D. Run-Length Coding \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In run-length coding we decompose the source file into segments of identical symbols, each segment is replaced by a pair of the form (symbol, number of occurrences). For example, the source file aaaabaaabbb is coded as (a, 4), (b, 1), (a, 3), (b, 3). This coding scheme works well when we have many long segments and works poorly when we have many short segments. Since our test images do not have long segments, we did not experiment with run-length coding. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
V. SPATIAL DOMAIN ALGORITHMS \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Spatial domain techniques involve methods for reducing the number of bits required to represent the information contained in the image by directly operating on the raw image. Such methods usually include two stages. The first stage involves the use of techniques such as image segmentation, subsampling and interpolation, etc. This is followed by a second stage involving efficient encoding of the results from the first stage. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
A. Variable Block Size Compression \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In [1], Ranganathan et al. developed a lossless image compression algorithm which exploits local and global redundancy present in most images. Their algorithm segments the image into variable size blocks and encodes them based on the properties exhibited by the pixels within a block. This algorithm performed better than the Huffman, Arithmetic, Lempel-Ziv, and the JPEG lossless schemes on all our test images. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
B. Lossy+Residual Approaches \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The lossy-residual approach includes many methods whose basic concept is to send a lossy image primarily, followed by the residual with respect to the original image. Using the lossy+residual, the original image can be reconstructed exactly. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
B.1 The JPEG Compression Standard \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
There are four modes of operation in JPEG namely, sequential DCT based mode, sequential lossless mode, progressive DCT based mode, and hierarchical mode. The JPEG standard specifies the following two coding methods for a lossless mode of operation. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Lossless method with Huffman coding. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Lossless method with arithmetic coding. The JPEG lossless mode uses a predictive coding technique. The lossless mode in JPEG is fully independent of the tranform-based coding and instead applies a differential coding to form the residuals which are then coded using either the Huffman or arithmetic coding methods. The residual from the prediction at a pixel location x is defined as $R=Px-x,$ where Px is the predicted value. The chosen prediction function is encoded into the header of the compressed stream and thus is easily readable at the decoder end. The JPEG lossless coding algorithm has several advantages. It involves very simple computations and hence is easy to implement. \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. Context-based Compression Algorithms \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Recently, context-based modeling has become a popular technique in image compression algorithms. When context modeling is applied to the compression of gray-scale images, it faces the "context dilution" problem, in which the frequency counts of each symbol must be spread over several contexts, thus affecting the accuracy of the corresponding estimates. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In LOCO-I [27], context definition is based on the local image gradients allowing one to capture the level of activity surrounding a pixel. In CALIC [26], the context is a combination of the local gradient and the previous prediction errors. Currently, due to LOCO-I's superior placement in the compression/complexity trade-off curve (that is, it has a very low complexity and good compression performance), it has been adopted as part of the new JPEG standard called JPEG-LS. While CALIC has a relatively higher complexity than LOCO-I, it is the best available compression scheme reported in the literature. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
C.1 CALIC: A Context Based Adaptive Lossless Image Coder \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
CALIC is a context based adaptive lossless image coder that was developed by Wu and Memon [26]. Basically, it is a lossy+residual approach. In the first stage, the algorithm uses a gradient-based non-linear prediction to get a lossy image and a residual image. In the second stage, it uses arithmetic coding to encode the residuals based on the conditional probability of the symbols in different contexts. CALIC is currently the best lossless image compression scheme reported in the literature. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
C.2 LOCO-I: A Low Complexity, Context-based Lossless Image Compression Algorithm \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The prediction and modeling units in LOCO-I are based on the causal template. LOCO-I achieves a good compression ratio with a low time complexity. However, CALIC is able to obtain slightly better compression at the expense of additional compute time. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 VI. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 TRANSFORM DOMAIN ALGORITHMS \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Transform domain algorithms exploit spatial frequency information contained in the image to achieve compression. For lossless compression, the most popular multiresolution transform-based scheme in the field of medical imaging has been the S-transform (sequential transform) [16], [17], [18]. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
A. $S+P$ Transform based Compression \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Said and Pearlman [7] developed an image multiresolution transform that is suited for both lossless (reversible) and lossy compression. This tranform requires only integer addition and bit-shift operations. By using careful scaling and truncation, the number of bits used to represent the transformed image is kept low. Experimental results show that this transform yields far superior compression ratios than the single resolution linear predictive coding based schemes like lossless JPEG. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
B. Wavelet Transform based Compression \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Traditionally, the Wavelet transform is very popular for lossy compression [21], [22]. More recently, Wavelet transforms that map integers to integers were developed by several researchers [23], [10], [9]. Calderbank et al., describe two methods for achieving the mapping of integers to integers using wavelet transforms. The $(S+P)$ algorithm provided the best compression for 7 of our 10 images and tied with the wavelet method on another 2. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 VII. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In this section, we present a comparison of the various lossless compression algorithms discussed in the previous sections. The effectiveness for lossless compression is measured using the compression ratio CR which is the ratio of the size of the original image to the size of the compressed data stream. For the evaluation, a selection of 45 images from the ISO test images, the NASA image database, slices from several MR and CT volume image data sets and a diverse set of publicly available images, were used. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The results indicate that CALIC performed better than $S+P$ Wavelet, Ranga and JPEG schemes on all the test images. CALIC did better than the LOCO-I/JPEG-LS technique on 42 of 45 images. LOCO-I/JPEG-LS and transform domain schemes perform better than Ranga and JPEG on most of the images. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 VIII. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 CONCLUSION \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 We have reviewed state of the art techniques for lossless image compression. These techniques were evaluated experimentally using a suite of 45 images that represent several application domains. Among these techniques we considered, the best compression ratios were achieved by CALIC. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}